1o1 Session conducted with Firyal as tech lead on 26th July 2024.
This is the last 1o1 session with Firyal due to his focus on payroll restructuring project.

Soon, there will be there an Engineer Manager that will replace 1o1 session with Firyal.
# Scoping PK080

The problems that contained in PK080 is not well abstracted into two main problem i.e shift availability and timezone. Those abstraction should be discovered early before hand-over to engineer problem. 
This is currently a cultural problem that will be bring to business through product.
# Higher Level when writing SDD

When writing tech solution from PRD we failed to capture the higher level of the problem and too focused on each story one by one. Meanwhile, is it crucial to have higher level view for all engineer teams in order to solve the whole problem that holds in PRD.
One of indication of having the higher level view can be seen from each discussion keeps going around in circles on the same topic.

For example, in PK080, the problem is not only about timezone, but also about shift availability. This is the higher level view that should be captured in SDD.
# Time management

Consider to pick random number between these range:
1. 1-230
2. 1-5
Which one is easier to estimate?
The first one is easier to estimate because the range is bigger. 

Basically, estimating story points is like picking random number. What we can control is the range instead of the number we pick. In order to get better estimation, we need to manage the scope and complexity of the problem. 

 So this issue basically happened in other people due to lack of scoping. So, we need to manage the scope and complexity of the problem in order to get better estimation.

# Conclusion

The scoping issue is a cultural problem that will be bring to business through product. This issue already raised to business and product teams. Hopefully,  we could manage the scope and complexity of the problem in order to get better estimation.
